UI: Add ability to programmatically hide the toolbar (#23820)
storybookjs/storybook: docs/configure/toolbar.md

---
title: 'Toolbar'
---

Storybook’s toolbar appears at the top of stories and docs pages. It displays menus from addons that can customize the preview environment, like the [viewport](../essentials/viewport.md) and [background](../essentials/backgrounds.md)) addons, as well as [custom menus](../essentials/toolbars-and-globals.md#global-types-and-the-toolbar-annotation) you've defined.

### Conditionally show toolbar

By default, the toolbar is visible on every page, and users can choose to hide it with a keyboard shortcut.

If you need, you can customize when the toolbar appears. For example. this configuration will always hide it on docs pages:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

<CodeSnippets
  paths={[
    'common/storybook-manager-hide-toolbar-on-docs.js.mdx',
  ]}
/>

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

The following parameters are available to the `showToolbar` function:

| Name                     | Type     | Description                                                    | Example Value                         |

> | ------------------------ | :------: | :------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------: |

Author: Oh dear, I thought you meant left-align the text in the source and the Markdown table do the center-aligning :laughing:

> ---

Reviewer: As mentioned in the triage meeting earlier, you will need to update `toc.js` to add this page under the Configure section of the docs navigation menu. I think putting it in the User Interface sub-section, immediately following `sidebar-and-urls` would make sense.

title: 'Toolbar'
---

> <YouTubeCallout id="TODO?" title="How to Configure the Toolbar" />

Reviewer: Remove this, please. We add it once a video is made.

> Storybook’s toolbar appears at the top of stories and docs pages. It displays menus from addons that can customise the preview environment, like the [viewport] and [background]) addons, as well as [custom menus]() you've defined.

Reviewer: Please provide URLs for all links. They should be relative and include the `.md` extension (so they function on GitHub):

```suggestion
Storybook’s toolbar appears at the top of stories and docs pages. It displays menus from addons that can customize the preview environment, like the [viewport](../essentials/viewport.md) and [background](../essentials/background.md) addons, as well as [custom menus](../essentials/toolbars-and-globals.md#global-types-and-the-toolbar-annotation) you've defined.
```

Author: Thanks for catching this mistake! I'm committing this locally to spare me extra git operations and to avoid extra CI runs.

### Conditionally show toolbar

By default, the toolbar is visible on every page, and users can choose to hide it with a keyboard shortcut.

> If you need, you can customise when the toolbar appears by adding the following configuration:

Reviewer: I think introducing this example a little more specifically would be helpful:

```suggestion
If you need, you can customize when the toolbar appears. For example. this configuration will always hide it on docs pages:
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

<CodeSnippets
  paths={[
    'common/storybook-manager-hide-toolbar-on-docs.js.mdx',
  ]}
/>

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

The following parameters are available to the `showToolbar` function:

> | Name                     |     Type      |                           Description                            |            Possible Value             |

Reviewer: Left-align all columns, please.

> | Name                     |     Type      |                           Description                            |            Possible Value             |

Reviewer: To be consistent with other tables:

```suggestion
| Name                     |     Type      |                           Description                            |            Example Value             |
```

| ------------------------ | :-----------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------: |

> | **path**                 |    String     |                 Path to the page being displayed                 |  `/story/components-button--default`  |

Reviewer: If the value is a string, then that should be represented here:

```suggestion
| **path**                 |    String     |                 Path to the page being displayed                 |  `'/story/components-button--default'`  |
```

Applies to all `String` type possible values.

Author: Thanks, I wasn't sure about that. I inspired myself from existing docs, so is it expected that some docs show strings without single quotes? Is it just debt?

Reviewer: Oh, apparently. 😅 

If you point out the ones you're aware of to me, I'll make sure they're addressed. 🙏

Author: * docs/addons/addons-api.md
* docs/configure/features-and-behavior.md
* docs/essentials/viewport.md (device type)
* docs/writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy.md (locale)

Author: I've used a quick and dirty code search, could have missed some obviously.

| **viewMode**             |    String     |           Whether the current page is a story or docs            |           `docs` or `story`           |
| **singleStory**          |    Boolean    |    Whether the current page is the only story for a component    |           `true` or `false`           |
| **storyId**              |    String     |             The id of the current story or docs page             |    `blocks-blocks-unstyled--docs`     |
| **layout**               |    Object     |                     The current layout state                     |              *see below*              |
| **layout.isFullscreen**  |    Boolean    |         Whether the preview canvas is in fullscreen mode         |           `true` or `false`           |

> | **layout.panelPosition** |    Boolean    |  Whether the panel is shown below or on the side of the preview  |          `bottom` or `right`          |

Author: This should be a string.
